
  TRANSCRIBER'S NOTE

  Text in italics is surrounded by underscores: _italics_.
  Text in bold is surrounded by equal signs: =bold=.
  Text in Small Caps has been rendered in ALL CAPS.
  Some minor changes to the text are noted at the end of the book.




                  The
          Quest for Santa Claus

                  BY

             FRANK ATKINSON

             [Illustration]

            _PRICE 50 CENTS_
                 _____

             Copyright 1923
                 _____

    ARTHUR H. STROUSE PUBLISHING CO.
              BERWYN, ILL.




        The Quest for Santa Claus


           A CHRISTMAS PLAY IN
         FOUR ACTS AND A PROLOGUE
  DEPICTING FAMILIAR SCENES ON CHRISTMAS EVE
             IN MERRY ENGLAND
                 _______

  Prologue
  Act I    A Street in Sandbach
  Act II   Brereton Hall
  Act III  Room in Santa Claus House
  Act IV   Santa Claus Workshop
                 _______

  CAST OF CHARACTERS

  ROSALIND, The Original 2 in 1
  CAPTAIN OF THE CONGO S. S.
  FIRST MATE OF THE CONGO S. S.
  MAGGIE  }
  CRISPIN } A brace of street urchins
  MR. S. CLAUS, Toymaker--by special appointment to Her Majesty, the Queen
  MRS. S. CLAUS, Frugal housewife
  J. D. ROCKY FELLOW, Lamplighter
  WILLIAM KNIGHT HAWK, Watchman
  HAROLD }
  ETHEL  } Two souls with but a single thought
  MATTHEW RINGLING, Town Crier
  MR. ALLCOCK }
  MR. CLEWS   } Lovers of darkness rather than light
  M’LLE BEATYSAX OPHONIA
  M’LLE VIOLA FIDDEL STRINGS
  M’LLE SKYLARK LINNETTE NIGHTENGALE
  MONSIEUR WOOD WYNDE
  M’LLE FLUFFY
  M’LLE TABITHA, Playful as a Kitten
  SANTA CLAUS, Fountain of Eternal Youth
  LUCIFER MATCH, King of Imps
  Citizens, Waits, Retinue of Imps


NOTE: Before the curtain rises upon Act I, as soon as the company
has assembled, the Superintendent ostensibly begins a short
address of welcome. While thus engaged, “Beggar Maid” enters at
the rear of the room and immediately starts in with her lines
and by the time the First Mate, who up until that point has
been serving as an Usher, has made reply the whole audience is
conscious of the conversation taking place, and the dialogue goes
on uninterrupted until the end.

The transformation accomplished by the erstwhile Beggar Maid, but
now a Fairy Princess, is the sudden illumination of the evergreen
trees flanking both sides of the stage by colored electric
lights, and is very effective.




PROLOGUE


BEGGAR MAID: Please, sir, and wot’s a’goin’ on ’ere, is it the
movies or somethin’?

(USHER) First Mate: No, this is a Christmas Party for the boys
and girls of the ....................... Sunday School.

BEGGAR MAID: Oh, I’m sorry--not for them, but for myself--I
thought, if it was a movie you might let me in for this
ha’penny--it’s all the money I’ve got--But this is no place for
me--nobody wants a beggar around when they’re ’avin’ parties.

  (Beggar Maid turns to leave, but before doing so the usher
  takes her by the hand.)

(USHER) First Mate: No, don’t go away--I assure you we shall be
glad to have you as our guest--Come with me.

BEGGAR MAID: No, thank ’ee, I can’t come here wi’ on’y these rags.

  (As she speaks she is struggling to get away.)

(SUPT.) Captain (Addressing the Usher): What is it, Mr. ----?

(USHER) First Mate: We have with us, Mr. Superintendent, an
unexpected guest--a stranger in town, who came here thinking it
was a movie show--I’ve been telling our young friend that she
will be welcome--but she is reluctant to accept my invitation.

(SUPT.) Captain: You are quite right, Mr. ----, we are indeed
happy to have anyone come and share our joy--let me assure you,
dear, you are welcome--come right along, see here we have a
vacant chair where you will be able to see the players, and, I
dare say, you will find them quite as fine as any you would see
at the movies.

  (By this time, with reluctant steps, led by the (USHER)
  First Mate, the Beggar Maid has come to the front of the
  room and the center of the stage.)

  (But instead of taking the proffered seat, turning to the
  (Superintendent) Captain, and rising to her full stature,
  she speaks.)

BEGGAR MAID: Mr. Superintendent, I am much pleased to find here
the Spirit of the Master, and to vouchsafe to you and to all of
these dear people gathered here, a royal, happy good time in all
your merrymaking, and in the homage I trust each and all are now
bringing in honor of the infant Christ, who, two thousand years
ago was born in a lowly stable amid the hills of Bethlehem, in
old Judea. No less true is it in our day than it was of old that
oftentimes we entertain angels unaware. Doubtless, you think I
am only a beggar, and for that I am very thankful, for thus it
is possible for me to reward the kindly spirit you have shown
to those less fortunate than yourselves. But you see I am not a
beggar.

  (Here the Beggar Maid drops off her outer garment.) but a
  fairy princess, whose magic wand can make beauty spring up
  everywhere.

  (Turning to the right hand she waves her wand over the
  trees, which instantly flash into beauty, (colored lights),
  and then to the left hand--and, while the people are
  rejoicing over the illumination, she rapidly runs down
  the center aisle to rear of room, and makes her escape,
  stopping only once to wish them

“A Merry Christmas.”)


END OF PROLOGUE




ACT I.

STREET IN SANDBACH


NOTE: When the curtain rises Santa Claus is busy arranging toys
in shop window, lighting candles and doing such other stage work
as will enliven the scene.

No lines are spoken until Crispin and Maggie come upon the scene,
the idea being to portray the various types of folk one would
expect to find upon the street--the types can be many or few,
fishmongers, washwomen, laborers, children, musicians, teamsters
returning from work, street arabs, etc. Some of these enter the
shop and buy, others, like Crispin and Maggie, must be content
with looking in. These characters should enter alternately from
right and left stage.

  (Enter Crispin.) Note: Boy enters right stage.

  (Enter Maggie. After one-half minute girl follows, enters
  left stage. They both walk slowly up stage to window of the
  toy shop, keeping as far apart as is possible. Both are
  interested only in the window display, and for some time
  neither of them speak.)

MAGGIE: Hello!

CRISPIN: (After pause) ’lo!

  (Another silence)

MAGGIE: D’jer live ’ere?

CRISPIN: Naw.

MAGGIE: Neither do I. (Pause). Wot’s yer name?

CRISPIN: Der gang calls me Cris, but in ’igh sasiety dey calls me
Crispin.

  (After pause)

Wot’s yore name?

MAGGIE: W’en I call on the queen my name is Maggie, but the folk
in our alley call me Mag.

CRISPIN: Wot yer hidin’ under yer apron?

MAGGIE: A apple.

CRISPIN: We’re d’jer swipe it?

MAGGIE: I didn’t swipe it, smarty, an old guv’ner gave it to me
for running an errand for ’im.

CRISPIN: Is that all ’e guv yer?

MAGGIE: Isn’t that enough--wot yer want a guy to guv yer--a
sixpence fer doin’ nuthin’--an’ besides, he wor a nice ol’
gentleman.

CRISPIN: How d’jer know--was ’e a friend of yer feyther?

MAGGIE: Naw, smarty, ’e was no friend of my fambly, I never seen
’im before tonight--but I know ’e is a nice man--he said such
nice things to me.

CRISPIN: Wot d’jer mean by nice things--I never seed any on ’em
knockin’ around our alley.

MAGGIE: Well--w’en I got back to ’im he smiled and said, “Thank
yer, mi dear, and ’eres a apple fer yer, and I wish yer a Merry
Christmas.”

CRISPIN: (H)excuse me, Mag, fer takin’ liberties with yer name
on such a short acquaintance, but I ’ave to laff w’en I ’ear of
these rich guys wishin’ the likes of us a ’appy Christmas, and
doin’ nuthin’ to ’elp make their wish come true.--Now if yer
kind benefactor ’ad said, “Here’s a ten-pound note--go and get
yerself some warm clothes to cover yer ’arf-naked body, and some
food to fill yer empty stomach, and get fer yerself one o’ them
golden-’aired dollys wot shut their eyes, and say, ‘Mamma’ when
yer punch ’em in their breadbasket,” I could feel he were sincere
in his good wishes for yer.

MAGGIE: Now, Cris, yer mustn’t run on like that, it isn’t
fair--some of these rich folk never had the chances you and me
’ave ’ad--and so I say, clothes, or no clothes, food, or no
food, blue-eyed sleepin’, squawkin’ dollies, or no dollies,
I’m glad fer the progress some on ’em ’ave made. Perhaps some
day they will learn that true Christmas ’appiness _begins_ in
_well wishing_ and _ends_ in _well doing_. Until then we must be
content in _lookin’_ at the things which belong to others, just
as we ’ave been doin’ before this winder fer the last ’arf ’our.

  (At this point the clock in the steeple strikes five.)

CRISPIN: Gee, I must be going.

MAGGIE: So must I, Cris--but before we part I want to wish yer a
Merry Christmas.

  (Both start to walk away in opposite directions, but before
  leaving the stage Maggie stops.)

MAGGIE: Say, Cris, just a minute--’ave yer a jack knife in yer
pocket?

  (Cris searches his pockets--fishes out a rather dilapidated
  knife--opens it, and hands it to Maggie, who cuts apple in
  half--returns knife to Cris.)

MAGGIE: And ter make my wish come true, Cris--’er’s the ’alf of
my apple.

  (Both leave the stage, joyfully eating the apple and
  grinning from ear to ear.)

  (Exit Maggie, Right.)

  (Exit Crispin, Left.)

  (Lamplighter. Enter right, lights street lamp and exit
  left.)

  (Washerwoman. Enter left, carrying basket of wash.)

  (Fishmonger. Enter right--Fresh herrin’, all alive, all
  alive, all alive. Herrin’, fresh herrin’, twelve fer a
  shillin’. Note: As she passes the shop of Santa Claus, Mrs.
  Claus opens shop door.)

MRS. CLAUS: Are you sure yer herrin’ are fresh?

FISHMONGER: Mi lady, so ’elp me, they were swimmin’ in the sea
this very mornin’.

MRS. CLAUS: Wot are yer askin’ fer ’em?

FISHMONGER: O’ny a shillin’ a dozen, lady.

MRS. CLAUS: That’s wot I call dear for herrin’. Make it
nine-pence and I’ll take a dozen.

FISHMONGER: No, ma’am, not if I never sell ’em (walks away.)
Fresh herrin’, herrin’, herrin’, herrin’, all alive, all alive,
(suddenly turns again.) Well, missus, seeing as I on’y have a few
left, ’ere yer are, tak ’em at yer own price. Counts out herring
and exit.

  (At this point Santa Claus locks up his shop for the night,
  puts up shutters in front of windows and returns into shop.)

  (Musician. Enter right, carrying bass viol.)

  (Night Watchman: Enter left, eight o’clock and all’s well.
  Exit right. Note by this time the village streets are
  nearly deserted.)

  (Enter Ethel. Enter Harold. Immediately following exit of
  Watchman after his 8 o’clock round, Harold and Ethel enter
  from left stage--Harold is leading Ethel by the hand. They
  look around from one side of the street to the other, which
  at this time is deserted.)

ETHEL: I don’t believe Santa lives here.

HAROLD: Neither do I--I expect he lives in a big house, like the
Earl of Crewe.

ETHEL: I am beginning to think we shall not find Santa at all.

HAROLD: Oh, yes, sis, we will find him--don’t get discouraged.

ETHEL: But you are forgetting it is nearly time for him to start
out on his long journey.

HAROLD: I have not forgotten that, but I am thinking that it
takes a big factory to hold all the toys Santa has made since
last year.

ETHEL: Yes, but I don’t see any big factory here, do you?

HAROLD: Look! Look! Ethel, I believe we have found it--see that
sign over the shop window, it says S. CLAUS, TOYMAKER.

ETHEL: Yes, and the shutters are up--that’s because Santa doesn’t
want anyone to see him at work.

HAROLD: Let us go and knock on the door and see if Santa will
answer.

ETHEL: No, I am a little bit afraid. You go.

  (While the children are hesitating about what ought to be
  done, Mr. S. Claus leaves the place and starts to walk away
  rapidly. Just then, the children turn and catch sight of
  him.)

HAROLD: See, Ethel, there he goes--Come, let us follow him.

  (Both children leave the stage, shouting, “Santa, Santa,
  wait a minute, please, Santa, wait.”)

  (_Exit_ Harold and Ethel.)

  (Enter Towncrier from right stage.)

  (First time off stage--Second time on stage--Crier takes
  center stage, rings bell vigorously, takes position with
  bell reposing in left arm, with right hand clutching tongue
  of bell.)

TOWN CRIER: Lost, strayed or stolen, a ten-year-old boy and his
young sister--the children of our fellow townsman, Mr. Alphonso
Cruickshank, Ironmonger and Tinker, of Number 12, High Street,
Sandbach. When last seen, the children were walking in the
direction of Congleton Road, but beyond this their whereabouts
are unknown. A reward of 50 guineas in gold will be paid to any
person, or persons, who, finding the children, shall safely
return them to their bereaved parents.

  (Exit Crier.)

  (Watchman in distance is heard calling, “Nine o’clock and
  all’s well.” The village clock strikes the hour and the
  chimes sweetly play.)

  (Enter Clews, right, who saunters across stage and returns,
  taking position under lamp, when chimes are ended.)

  (Enter Allcock, left, carrying bundle.)

CLEWS: Good evenin’, mate, w’ere ’as thi bin, I’ve been waitin’
on thi fur the last ’our.

ALLCOCK: I dunna wonder at thi askin’ w’ere I’ve been. This’ll be
the first toime in the last twel’ yer that I’ve missed bein’ at
the Black Bear on Christmas eve. But that is ner the on’y thing
I’ve missed, so I must ’asten ’ome and get a bite o’ summat to
eat.

CLEWS: Does ta mean to tell me thi ’asn’t ’ad thi supper yet?

ALLCOCK: I conna speak no plainer than w’at I sed a minit ago.

CLEWS: But w’at kept thi away from ’ome so long--Surely not the
love of thi work?

ALLCOCK: No, ’ardly that, but thi knows ’ow it is hup at the
’all--an’ ’ow they fixes hup everythin’ fur the big party they’re
’avin come ter-morrer--I dunno wat they would a dun if I’d a quit
on ’em.

CLEWS: I ’no wat thi means, mate, I’ve thought miself wot a
’elpless lot some folk are.

ALLCOCK: Aye, all I ’eard ter-day was, “Willyum, ’ave yer killed
an’ dressed the sucking pigs--Willyum, ’ave yer finished plucking
the geese--Willyum, will yer be sure there are yule logs on ’and
fer the party--Willyum, go down to the butchers and bring the
roast of beef I ordered--William, this, and Willyum that,” until
I’m sick and tired o’ mi own name.

But they’re not a bad lot at that for the mester gave me a
Christmas box o’ ten shilling’ an’ I ’ave in this bundle some
clothes wot belonged to the little gel w’at died a year ago come
Michaelmas, an’ a bran new dress w’ich the missus sent to mi owd
woman.

CLEWS: Mite it be yer ’ad a goose in yer bundle fer yer Christmas
dinner, as well as the fine feathers fer the missus?

ALLCOCK: No, Jack, but you ’no and I ’no w’ere there is as fine a
dinner waitin’ fer them as knows, as ever come out o’ a pot--and
yer ’ave ’eard tell as ’ow the first thing to be dun in makin’
rabbit pie is to first catch the rabbit.

CLEWS: I understand, Willyum--Make it ten by the clock--at the
old place back of the ’all.

ALLCOCK: So long, mate.

CLEWS: So long.

  (Exit Poachers.)

  (Enter Carolers.)

  1. What Child is This?
  2. Good King Wenceslas.
  3. Christians Awake, Salute the Happy Morn.

  (Exit Carolers.)

CURTAIN

NOTE: It is very effective when the carolers can conveniently
sing for the first time off stage, as if in the distance. The
carolers should be appropriately dressed for cold weather, carry
lanterns and the stage should be darkened.




ACT II.


NOTE: Harold and Ethel in their pursuit of Santa Claus, the
village Toymaker and Shop Keeper, find themselves far from home
and in the grounds immediately surrounding Brereton Hall. The
stage setting should consist of a hedge row built up of small
evergreen trees at the rear of the stage and on both ends, with a
wooden stile set in the hedge on right stage. Evergreen branches
are strewn around, left there by the hedger, who had been
trimming the hedges about the grounds.

The children enter from left and the Poachers, for such are Clews
and Allcock, who later appear, enter from the right, climb over
the stile and soon get busy at the task which brought them there,
namely, the bagging of a brace of rabbits for their Christmas
dinner.

  (As the curtain rises, Harold and Ethel are wearily
  dragging themselves across stage--when center is reached,
  Ethel stops, and in tears she refuses to go any further.)

ETHEL (tearfully): Harold, I just can’t go another step, I want
to go home to mamma.

HAROLD: Don’t cry, Sis, you know I believe we’re almost there--if
you only think of the fun we will have when we find Santa, you
will forget all about being tired.

ETHEL: I know it will be lots of fun to see Santa, and, if
we ever do find him, I’m going to ask him to show me all his
wonderful toys. But I think I’d rather wait until next year. I
want mamma.

  (No longer able to restrain herself, she bursts out crying,
  much to the undoing of Harold.)

HAROLD: See here, Sis, please don’t cry. When we get home I’ll
give you my new cricket bat and ball. Perhaps if we sit down
for a little while we will get rested. I’ll just gather a few
of these branches--that will be better than sitting on the cold
ground.

  (Harold arranges the branches as a little bed down stage,
  and places Ethel upon it.)

ETHEL: How lonely it is here at night. Can you see any houses
near?

HAROLD: (Climbing up on stile so as to look over the hedge):
Yes, I see a big house not far away. I’m sure that must be
where Santa is. Let us rest here awhile.

  (Harold seats himself beside Ethel--puts his arms around
  her, draws her near to him.)

And then we will surely find Santa.

  (After pause)

I’m jolly glad the moon is shining, aren’t you, Ethel?

  (Ethel does not answer, for she has fallen asleep. Gently
  Harold lays her down upon the boughs and with a yawn
  says----)

I think I’ll just rest awhile myself.

  (And in a minute he, too, is fast asleep.)

  (Soon after the children fall asleep, two Poachers arrive
  on the scene, and, entirely oblivious to the fact that
  there are human beings near them, they proceed to the work
  of the evening, just as the bell in the village clock
  strikes the hour of ten. All through the work of the
  Poachers the children remain fast asleep.)

  (Just as the Poachers make ready to leave, the children are
  discovered.)

CLEWS: Well. I’ll be blow’ed, if ’ere aint the babes in the wood.

ALLCOCK (rushing to cover): Wo’t, yer don’t mean the Game-keeper
and his gang? W’y don’t yer duck?

CLEWS: (laughing heartily): ’Oo said onythin’ about game-keepers.
Come an’ luk fer thy sel’--’ere are two as fine babbys as yer
hever sot h’eyes on.

ALLCOCK (drawing near to sleeping children): Blime me, if they
haint. I wonder wot they’re doin’ ’ere at this time o’ noight?

CLEWS: I conna tell thi that, mon, w’y doesn’t thi ask ’em thi
sel’?

ALLCOCK (gently shaking Harold): Wake h’up, little mon, does
ta want to catch thi death o’ cold lying out ’ere this cold
night--and what about the little gel, wake ’er h’up tew.

  (After some time and much rubbing of eyes, the children
  awaken.)

HAROLD: Please, Mr., can you tell us who lives in yonder
house--Sis and I hope that is where Santa lives. If so, we must
be going, or else Santa will have left.

ETHEL: Yes, you know he will go just as soon as the clock strikes
twelve, and we want to see his wonderful toys before he leaves.

CLEWS: ’Earken to that, will yer, these kids want to see Santa
Claus--Ha! Ha! Ha! Say, Kiddie, there haint no Santa.

HAROLD: You are mistaken, sir, for sis and I saw him tonight,
with our own eyes, but he walked so fast we couldn’t catch up to
him.

ALLCOCK: An’ w’ere might it be that yer saw the idol of yer
dreams?

HAROLD: We saw him come from his shop in the square near the
Black Bear.

CLEWS (aside): Say, mate, it’s the owd codjer, S. Claus, the
kiddies are thinkin’ on. Wot der yer say if we giv ’em a lift.
It’s not much the likes of uz can do to make anny body ’appy, but
’eres a little job we con do as well as anny on ’em.

ALLCOCK: Yer rite, mate.

  (Turning to children)

Come along, we’ll ’ave yer in front of ’is r’yal ’ighness in less
nor a jiff’ey.

  (Exit Poachers with the now happy children upon their
  shoulders, and their Christmas dinner safely bagged.)

  (Enter King of the Imps--At blast of whistle the imps
  spring up behind the hedge.)

IMPS (all): What ho, your majesty!

LUCIFER MATCH: Assemble ye here for a council of war.

IMPS (all): Your Majesty’s commands shall be obeyed.

  (Imps gather down stage and seat themselves Indian fashion
  in a circle--the King remains standing.)

LUCIFER MATCH (addressing Imps): My mind is ill at ease--Go where
I will, I fail not to observe how men, in city, town, and hamlet
throughout the land, in fealty to Him they call the Christ, are
moved to deeds of mercy and of love.

IMP NO. 1: If such be true, Your Majesty, it bodes ill of thee
and thy kingdom of darkness.

LUCIFER MATCH: Yea, such is true, and not content with that, they
move from street to street, and house to house, and, like the
angels on Bethlehem hills, two thousand years ago, they proclaim
the Messiah’s birth, and sing of _Peace_ and _Goodwill to Men_.
Thus do they assail and threaten my right to reign and rule.

IMP NO. 1: It must not be, Your Majesty.

LUCIFER MATCH: It shall not be--some way must be found to stop
these inroads upon my kingdom and domain--but what to do, and
how, and when, I know not.

IMP NO. 1: Has not Your Majesty thought of persecution?

LUCIFER MATCH: Persecution, in that ye counsel without knowledge.
To stop this tide of Christmas cheer by persecution is as foolish
as to attempt to dam a river at its mouth.

IMP NO. 1: Has not Your Majesty discovered any arch conspirator
in this plot?

LUCIFER MATCH: Aye, that I have and by cunning ways have I sought
to turn him from his course, but neither threat, money, or
persuasion have any effect upon him to check the rising of good
will, which, like water gushing from a fountain, overflows and
fills the hearts of the children of men everywhere with his own
genial spirit and warm friendliness.

IMP NO. 1: Where does he abide, Your Majesty?

LUCIFER MATCH: He lives hard by an Inn, the Black Bear, where
incessantly he toils throughout the year in fashioning toys and
other gifts, which he lavishly bestows upon the people in his
journey around the world on Christmas night--but I fear his real
abode is in the hearts of men, and particularly in the hearts of
little children.

IMP NO. 1 (rising and bowing): Pardon me, Sire for venturing to
suggest that thou commission us to wreak destruction upon the
toys, or otherwise prevent this arch enemy of thine from carrying
out his plan.

LUCIFER MATCH: Thou speakest words of wisdom, and it is my will
that thou perform in my name, and in behalf of my kingdom this
work of destruction. Here, then, is thy commission--Look well to
the task.

  (King hands document to Imp No. 1, who reads it aloud to
  the other Imps.)

“Whereas, one Santa Claus, by cunning devices and by his
unfailing good humor and goodwill, is stealing the hearts and
fealty of my hitherto loyal subjects--now, therefore, do I,
Lucifer Match, declare that from this hour I will give him no
peace or rest--

And, in order that his work may be brought to nought, I do
commission my loyal band of Imps to sally forth and utterly
destroy not only this arch conspirator, but all his handiwork--To
him who shall accomplish the downfall of this personification of
Christmas Peace and Good Will, I give the half of my kingdom, and
the hand of my daughter in marriage.

                                 (Signed) LUCIFER MATCH,
                                        King of the Imps.”
  LARGE
  RED
  SEAL

  (After reading of commission, exit Lucifer Match. _Then
  Imps disappear behind the hedge._)

END OF ACT II. CURTAIN.




ACT III.


SCENE--ROOM IN SANTA CLAUS’ HOUSE

(When the curtain rises, Santa is doing some simple task around
the room with his back to the audience--then, turning around as
the clock strikes eleven, he speaks--)

SANTA: Ah, the time is drawing nigh when I must sally forth--An
hour yet remains, and so I’ll improve it by taking a little
nap--How good it is after the day’s toil is ended to sweetly
rest--perchance to dream of the fruit of one’s labor. Here’s
a cushion for my head, and what matters if my feet hang o’er
the end like culprits from the gallows. ’Tis good--And now to
sleep----

  (Santa sinks into deep slumber.)

  (Enter Imps stealthily--3 from right, and 3 from left--They
  look around the room and presently discover Santa. They
  look first toward Santa’s picture on the wall and then at
  Santa.)

IMP 5: This is the place.

IMP 2 (pointing to Santa): And there’s the man.

IMP 3: Methinks already half of my lord’s kingdom is mine.

IMP 4: Strike then the blow.

IMP 3 (approaches Santa, then returns): My heart fails me--Strike
thou the blow.

IMP 5 (approaches Santa, then returns): Only a traitor could
strike so kindly a face as his.

IMP 1: Cowards, make way--I’ll lay him low.

  (Advances to Santa with hand uplifted as if to strike.)

His must be a charmed life--I can no ill do unto him.

  (Turning to Imps)

Is there no one willing to obey our king?

IMPS (all): No, not one--Would that our king were Santa--and here
and now we pledge to him our allegiance.

  (Each approaches Santa in turn making a profound bow, and
  then leaves the room--excepting Imp 1.)


SANTA CLAUS’ ROOM

IMP 1: I know what power is this which makes me traitor to my
king--Would I could warn him of his danger.

  (Walks to and fro in deep thought.)

This will I do--With my dagger will I pinion to yon wall this
commission of my king, so shall he learn of the king’s purpose to
do him harm.

  (Walks to back of stage--takes dagger from belt, and
  thrusts it through the Royal Commission to the wall.)

  (Then, after making bow to Santa, he retires off stage.)

  (Exit Imp No. 1. After exit of Imp No. 1, Santa awakens,
  stretches, and after rising makes discovery of the Imp’s
  Commission, which he removes from the wall, examines
  dagger, reads commission, laughs heartily, and to show his
  disdain tears commission to bits.)

  (A loud knock upon the door announces the arrival of Harold
  and Ethel whom the poachers have safely landed at the home
  of Santa Claus. Santa goes to door, left stage, and there
  finds the two children whom he invites to enter.)

SANTA: Well! Well! Well! In all my life I have never before had
the pleasure of a visit in my home from two such interesting
children. But what brought you here at this time of night?

HAROLD: We came on the shoulders of two of the nicest men we ever
met, didn’t we, Ethel?

ETHEL: Yes, and I am afraid we should never have found you,
Santa, if they hadn’t helped us.

SANTA: Now, that you have found me what is it you want?

HAROLD: Sis wants awfully to see your wonderful toys, but I
believe I’d like a nice soft bed to sleep in. (Yawns.) I’m so
tired.

ETHEL: You mustn’t mind what Harold says, Santa; of course, we
both want to see the toys, even though we are tired. (Ethel
yawns.) You see, Santa, we have been searching everywhere for you.

SANTA: This is perplexing, but I think I am beginning to
understand. Let us go into the next room. Mrs. Santa will know
what to do for tired and hungry children, and then I will show
you a few of my animated toys which I assure you is a rare
privilege. Come along.

  (Santa takes them by the hand.)

  (Exit right.)

CURTAIN.




ACT IV.

SANTA’S WORKSHOP


When the curtain rises, the toys are standing rigidly at back of
stage. Santa enters with children, whom he seats back to audience
at front and center of stage. Santa then proceeds to exhibit the
toys, winding them up, marching them to front stage, then to
position at front of stage right and left.

  M’lle Beatysax Ophonia, Saxophone Solo

  M’lle Viola Fiddel Strings, Violin Solo

  M’lle Skylark Linnette Nightengale, Vocal Solo

  Monsieur Wood Wynde, Flute Solo

  M’lle Tabitha, Playful as a Kitten, who makes merriment
  whenever the dolls are not actually doing their stunt.

  M’lle Fluffy, a dancing doll

No dialogue need be prepared for Santa, as it is better to let
Santa make his own fun in his own way. After the last number the
carolers and other members of the cast slip quietly upon the
stage and end the play by singing one verse of “O Come, All Ye
Faithful.”

CURTAIN.




Ideas for Children’s Parties

[Illustration]

By Arthur H. Strouse

Just What You Have Been Looking For

Complete plans for each month of the year with suggestions for
refreshments and simple homemade decorations. Will provide a
thoroughly enjoyable series of entertainments at least expense.
All outlines in this book have been the outgrowth of many
original parties by the author and others. An acceptable gift for
Teacher or parent.

Neatly bound in Art Craft Cover.

  Price per copy, limp cover.................$0.60




Stunts for In and Out-of-Doors

[Illustration]

By Arthur Howard Strouse

For Young and Old

140 pages of “Mixer,” Active, Quiet, Magic, Stunts, Contests,
School-room and play-ground games, Athletic Feats, Parties for
entertaining large or small groups in home, church or school,
and many suggestions for every occasion in the year. Meets
recreational requirements for young and old.

  Price per copy, Heavy Bristol Cover........$0.60




[Illustration]

Outdoor Stunts

By Arthur H. Strouse

The contents of this book were inspired by many outings with
boys and girls. The object in producing it was to supply the
increasing demand for good recreational plans. Wouldn’t you like
to give an out-door party where “Wieners” could be roasted over
the bon-fire, and later engage in games that bring the glow to
your cheeks and a happy light in your eyes?

There are war games, games of skill, Indian and African games;
Campfire and Community Suggestions and real “Stunts” that boys
and girls love to play. Size 6×9 inches.

  Price per copy.............................$0.50




[Illustration]

The Palace of Dreams

By Katherine J. Postle

An Entire Christmas Eve Entertainment

A religious play that beautifully illustrates the Christmas
story. Will hold the intense interest of all from beginning to
end. Includes tableau, dialog and music. The setting may be
simple or elaborate as desired. Children delight in appearing
in costume. Once given will long be remembered. Thirty or more
characters.

  Price per copy.............................$0.25




[Illustration]

The Children’s Christmas Dream

By Mary E. Telford

A Christmas play in one act, easily staged, teaching the spirit
of giving. Has a splendid missionary climax. Sixteen characters
(children). The scene is laid out in Grandfather’s house where
the children are spending their Christmas. While waiting for
Santa, the children fall asleep. A fairy summons children from
foreign lands who make their appeal to learn more of the Christ
Child.

  Price per copy.............................$0.25




[Illustration]

Behold, I Bring You Good Tidings

By F. Lester Price

and

A Christmas Carol

By W. A. Bartlett

A Special Christmas Folder for the Children’s Service. Contains
two songs of Exceptional Merit.

  Price per copy 10 cents, per dozen...........$1.00




Christmas Budget of Recitations and Plans

By Arthur H. Strouse

140 pages of new suggestions for the Christmas program, home or
school. Many selections of recognized merit. 140 pages.

  Price per copy, paper cover.............................$0.75

☛ Ready for distribution September 1, 1923




[Illustration]

The Awakening of Mr. Smith

A Missionary Play

By Bertha J. Clemans

Mr. Wealthy Smith is converted to believing and contributes
liberally--through a dream--portrayed in view of the audience.
Natives of different countries appearing and presenting their
great needs. A very impressive play in three acts easily staged,
6 or more characters.

  Price per copy...............................$0.25




[Illustration]

The Soul of a Flower

By Katherine J. Postle

A New Idea for Children’s Day

A delightful plan of Dialog and Song in which the children
personify flowers and trees in the world of “Makebelieve.”
Pronounced most unique and instructive. Children’s Day was once
called “Flower Day” and the custom was to present the children
with flowers or potted plants. Why not revive this worthy custom?
Combine it with the Soul of a Flower and have a service that will
be a delight to all. Twenty or more characters.

  Price per copy....................................$0.50




[Illustration]

Alice Forber, Missionary

By Gertrude Martin Strawick

A dramatic Chinese play written by Miss Strawick while Missionary
in China. The plot is true to life and intensely interesting.

The setting may be made simple or elaborate as desired. In 3
acts, 30 characters. Time, 2 hours.

  Price per copy......................$0.50




  TRANSCRIBER'S NOTE


  The following changes have been made to the text:

  page 1: “LINNETTE NIGHTENGAL” changed to “LINNETTE NIGHTENGALE”
  page 6: “this very morning’” changed to “this very mornin’”
  page 6: “Musician” line turned to stage directions
  page 8: “Enter Carolers.” line turned to stage directions
  page 9: “Dont’ cry” changed to “Don’t cry”
  page 9: “she burst out” changed to “she bursts out”
  page 11: “kindgdom of darkness” changed to “kingdom of darkness”
  page 15: “they hadnt’ helped” changed to “they hadn’t helped”

